## Analysis of Cyberbullying Detection with Machine Learning 

Cyberbullying, a form of bullying which occurs through electronic communication, is a global issue that is increasingly more difficult to monitor as social media platforms continue to grow. Unlike traditional bullying that would occur during specific hours (i.e. school hours), cyberbullying occurs 24/7 and imposes new challenges as users make anonymous or fake profiles to conceal their identity while attacking their victims. In 2017 Twitter alone maintained over 300 million active users [9], making it extremely difficult for human detection systems to efficiently identify cyberbullying at scale. Data mining and machine learning systems are capable of detecting and extracting knowledge from large amounts data, proposing as a solution to the automated detection of cyberbullying.

The proceeding report documents the current state of cyberbullying detection via machine learning methods. A total of six case studies were selected between the years of 2011 and 2018. Some of the major challenges associated with cyberbullying detection through machine learning are introduced. Then the methods employed by each research team are examined and presented in a cross-sectional manner. Rather than presenting one research paper in full at a time, the studies are divided up into their core components: data collection and labelling, pre-processing and feature selection, then learning methods and their results. As each area is a problem in itself, presenting the studies in this manner will allow the reader to better compare the multiple solutions associated with each challenge. Throughout the analysis, proposals will be introduced for future work.

